




let's look at the source files and understand their structure:


## Plato


### EUTHYPHRO


EUTHYPHRO


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, Euthyphro.

SCENE: The Porch of the King Archon.

### TIMAEUS.


      TIMAEUS.


      PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, Critias, Timaeus, Hermocrates.

      SOCRATES: One, two, three; but where, my dear Timaeus, is the
      fourth of those who were yesterday my guests and are to be my
      entertainers to-day?

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 

### Thaetetus


THEAETETUS


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, Theodorus, Theaetetus.

Euclid and Terpsion meet in front of Euclid's house in Megara; they
enter the house, and the dialogue is read to them by a servant.


EUCLID: Have you only just arrived from the country, Terpsion?

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 



### SYMPOSIUM


SYMPOSIUM


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Apollodorus, who repeats to his companion
the dialogue which he had heard from Aristodemus, and had already once
narrated to Glaucon. Phaedrus, Pausanias, Eryximachus, Aristophanes,
Agathon, Socrates, Alcibiades, A Troop of Revellers.

SCENE: The House of Agathon.


Concerning the things about which you ask to be informed I believe that
I am not ill-prepared with an answer. For the day before yesterday I
was coming from my own home at Phalerum to the city, and one of my
acquaintance, who had caught a sight of me from behind, calling out
playfully in the distance, said: Apollodorus, O thou Phalerian (Probably
a play of words on (Greek), 

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 


### STATESMAN


STATESMAN


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Theodorus, Socrates, The Eleatic Stranger, The
Younger Socrates.

SOCRATES: I owe you many thanks, indeed, Theodorus, for the acquaintance
both of Theaetetus and of the Stranger.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK


### Sophist


SOPHIST


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Theodorus, Theaetetus, Socrates. An Eleatic
Stranger, whom Theodorus and Theaetetus bring with them. The younger
Socrates, who is a silent auditor.


THEODORUS: Here we are, Socrates, true to our agreement of yesterday;
and we bring with us a stranger from Elea, who is a disciple of
Parmenides and Zeno, and a true philosopher.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK


### Republic


 THE REPUBLIC.


 PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE.


Socrates, who is the narrator.

Glaucon.

Adeimantus.

Polemarchus.

Cephalus.

Thrasymachus.

Cleitophon.

And others who are mute auditors.

The scene is laid in the house of Cephalus at the Piraeus; and the
whole dialogue is narrated by Socrates the day after it actually took
place to Timaeus, Hermocrates, Critias, and a nameless person, who are
introduced in the Timaeus.




 BOOK I.


*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK


### PROTAGORAS

PROTAGORAS


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, who is the narrator of the Dialogue
to his Companion. Hippocrates, Alcibiades and Critias. Protagoras,
Hippias and Prodicus (Sophists). Callias, a wealthy Athenian.

SCENE: The House of Callias.


COMPANION: Where do you come from, Socrates? And yet I need hardly
ask the question, for I know that you have been in chase of the fair
Alcibiades. I saw him the day before yesterday; and he had got a beard
like a man,--and he is a man, as I may tell you in your ear. But I
thought that he was still very charming.


### PHILEBUS



PHILEBUS


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, Protarchus, Philebus.


SOCRATES: Observe, Protarchus, the nature of the position which you are
now going to take from Philebus, and what the other position is which I
maintain, and which, if you do not approve of it, is to be controverted
by you. Shall you and I sum up the two sides?

PROTARCHUS: By all means.



### PHAEDRUS


PHAEDRUS


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, Phaedrus.

SCENE: Under a plane-tree, by the banks of the Ilissus.


SOCRATES: My dear Phaedrus, whence come you, and whither are you going?




### PHAEDO


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE:

Phaedo, who is the narrator of the dialogue to Echecrates of Phlius.
Socrates, Apollodorus, Simmias, Cebes, Crito and an Attendant of the
Prison.

SCENE: The Prison of Socrates.

PLACE OF THE NARRATION: Phlius.



ECHECRATES: Were you yourself, Phaedo, in the prison with Socrates on
the day when he drank the poison?


###  PARMENIDES


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Cephalus, Adeimantus, Glaucon, Antiphon,
Pythodorus, Socrates, Zeno, Parmenides, Aristoteles.

Cephalus rehearses a dialogue which is supposed to have been narrated in
his presence by Antiphon, the half-brother of Adeimantus and Glaucon, to
certain Clazomenians.


We had come from our home at Clazomenae to Athens, and met Adeimantus
and Glaucon in the Agora. Welcome, Cephalus, said Adeimantus, taking me
by the hand; is there anything which we can do for you in Athens?

Yes; that is why I am here; I wish to ask a favour of you.


### **Charmides**

SCENE: The Palaestra of Taureas, which is near the Porch of the King
Archon.


### **MENO**

MENO


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Meno, Socrates, A Slave of Meno (Boy), Anytus.


MENO: Can you tell me, Socrates, whether virtue is acquired by teaching
or by practice; or if neither by teaching nor by practice, then whether
it comes to man by nature, or in what other way?


### **LAWS**


LAWS

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LAWS ***



BOOK I.

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: An Athenian Stranger, Cleinias (a Cretan),
Megillus (a Lacedaemonian).



### **Ion**

ION

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, Ion.


SOCRATES: Welcome, Ion. Are you from your native city of Ephesus?

ION: No, Socrates; but from Epidaurus, where I attended the festival of
Asclepius.

### **Ion**

ION

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, Ion.


SOCRATES: Welcome, Ion. Are you from your native city of Ephesus?

ION: No, Socrates; but from Epidaurus, where I attended the festival of
Asclepius.


### **Gorgias**

GORGIAS

By Plato

Translated by Benjamin Jowett

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Callicles, Socrates, Chaerephon, Gorgias,
Polus.

SCENE: The house of Callicles.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK


### **EUTHYDEMUS**

EUTHYDEMUS


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, who is the narrator of the Dialogue.
Crito, Cleinias, Euthydemus, Dionysodorus, Ctesippus.

SCENE: The Lyceum.


CRITO: Who was the person, Socrates, with whom you were talking
yesterday at the Lyceum? There was such a crowd around you that I could
not get within hearing, but I caught a sight of him over their heads,
and I made out, as I thought, that he was a stranger with whom you were
talking: who was he?

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK EUTHYDEMUS ***

### Crito

starts at:

CRITO

by

Plato

Translated by Benjamin Jowett


PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE:  Socrates, Crito.

SCENE:  The Prison of Socrates.

SOCRATES:  Why have you come at this hour, Crito? it must be quite early.

CRITO:  Yes, certainly.

### Critias

sample:

TIMAEUS: How thankful I am, Socrates, 


starts at:


CRITIAS.

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Critias, Hermocrates, Timaeus, Socrates.

ends at:      * The rest of the Dialogue of Critias has been lost.

### Cratylus

starts at:

CRATYLUS

By Plato

Translated by Benjamin Jowett

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: Socrates, Hermogenes, Cratylus.

HERMOGENES: Suppose that we make Socrates a party to the argument?

CRATYLUS: If you please.

HERMOGENES: I should explain to you, Socrates,

ends at: *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CRATYLUS ***



### Apology of Socrates

file is Apology_crito_phaedro

starts at THE APOLOGY OF SOCRATES.

sections 12.

ends at FOOTNOTES

## Aristotle

### **athenian constitution**

parts

ends in "*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK"


### **categories**

Section 3

Part 9

starts in "Translated by E. M. Edghill"

ends in "*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK"

### **ethics**

ARISTOTLEâ€™S ETHICS

BOOK I

Chapter I.

ends in "*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK"

### **poetics** 

-  Chapters

starts in 

ends in "*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK"


### **politics** 

- BOOKs and CHAPTERs 


starts in "A TREATISE ON GOVERNMENT"

ends in "*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK" 

### **history of the animals**

starts in "THE HISTORY OF ANIMALS.

BOOK THE FIRST.

CHAPTER I.

1. Some parts of animals are simple,

ends in "APPENDIX."



"*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK" 
